# Nickel Bank
CSE 341  
Jacob Oakman

## Compiling and building
### A simple makefile has been provided for compilation.
```
$> make
```
This will compile the code into class files stored in /out/

### Creating the JAR file
```
$> make jar
```
This will run the jar command to generate a jar file jco222.jar

### Running
```
$> java -jar jco222.jar
```
You will want to have a decent size terminal window to allow for our logo to not wrap.

## Recovery

The init folder contains the code used to generate transaction data. This code was written before I had a solid backend
and has since become obsolete and will not compile. There are, however, files in the dbdump, table and table_view
folders with sql representations of the database which can be used to rebuild the database on a system failure. There
is also export_final.sql which was generated by sqldeveloper and can also be used to regenerate data on a failure
but has not been tested.

## Interesting data items
### Interesting accounts:  

229204557358 - Checking account with no transactions  
owner: sage1975@yahoo.com  

172948734844 - Savings with only one owner  
owner: sage1975@yahoo.com  

440744249873 - Checking with two owners  
owners: kklein@gmail.com and RubyRios@gmail.com  

### Interesting debit cards:  

1875914840268458 CVC 624  
5279801148488861 CVC 651  
Both connected to the same account 440744249873 listed earlier  

9392105601421203 CVC 617 inactive debit card  

### Interesting email addresses:  

Dabrick@gmail.com - Has no Accounts  
mjohnson@gmail.com - Has only one Account  
jcar@hotmail.com - Has multiple accounts  
sage1975@yahoo.com - Has multiple accounts  

## Accounts

Note: Branch banking  
In order to access an account, you must first select which branch you're at.
You can only interact with ATM's through a debit card and can only check accounts and handle withdrawals.
Full branches can also handle deposits and opening new accounts. You can also access your accounts through
more methods including account number and a lookup via email. The most recent account to be accessed can
be cached for easy later transactions.  

Note: Lengths of numbers  
Account numbers are standardized to 12 characters long  
Card numbers are standardized to 16 characters long  
CVCs are standardized to being 3 or 4 characters long  
The software tests for these standards and will not accept anything which doesn't meet this.  

### Account Info

This gives some basic information about an account including the current balance.  

### Withdrawals and Deposits

The minimum withdrawal / deposit amount is $1. If the identity of the customer cannot be determined via an email
address entered to find accounts or finding an account via a debit card, the customer will have to enter their
email address to verify their identity. If they do not have access to the account, the transaction will be canceled.  

Withdrawals cannot take accounts regardless of type into a negative balance however checking accounts can be taken
below their minimum balance but this will subject the transaction to fees. Fees at Nickel Bank consist of the software
printing out the word "FEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!" which the teller will be instructed to yell at the
customer.  

Deposits are not available at ATMs but are available at branches. The interface is similar to the withdrawal except
we do not apply fees to deposits even when a deposit will keep the account below the minimum balance.  

### Create new Account

New accounts can be created for both savings and checking accounts. There are two options for interest rates on savings
accounts and two options for minimum balances for checking accounts. We print helpful tips for the correct option to
choose. Before creating an account, you must confirm your identity is already in our system or add your information to
the system. You cannot create new accounts at ATMs.  

Note: Account Numbers are generated by a trigger in the database, not in the application itself  

## Payments

Payments are available via the payment interface. At Nickel Bank we only allow payment via Card because we are
deprecating checks. You can pay to any vendor name. If the name entered is the same as one in our system ignoring case
we will direct it to the one in our system. We do not currently allow for vendor lookup or smart detection of spelling
errors but this could be implemented in the future.

## Currently Unused functionality

There have been triggers set up to generate card numbers and CVCs for new credit and debit cards.  
There is also a view to see the current balances owed on loans.  

## Known bugs

Data generated for the database was not checked for overpaying on credit cards and loans so some cards will have a
balance higher than that of their credit limit and some loans will show up in the database with a negative amount
representing money owed back to the borrower for an overpayment.  

There can be issues with auto increment and inputting bulk data. I ran into a problem where the auto increment sequence
would not increment when the id was inserted with the record and would end up being much lower than the actual maximum
id and so any newly inserted records would conflict because the autogenerated ID would conflict. I've remedied the
issue with my current database but it may come back if the data is reset from the database dumps in the init folder.

## Future Development

We must soon expand functionality to include Loans, Card Payments and an interface to show overall Banking Management
Statistics. The Bank Management area is already in the process of construction but has been hidden from view in this
version because it had no functionality.  

It may be a good idea for reporting to link accounts to the branches they were created at.  

Fiscally, our public shaming policy for fees may not be the best and it may be pertinent to add monetary fees which
will be applied as children of the inciting transaction.  
